# Introduction

This chapter is background information on the GitHub CLI, its extension framework, and CLI applications in general.

## The Command Line

The command line is a user interface pattern that just won't quit. What else in computing has remained roughly the same since the 1970s (60s if you consider Multics as a direct inspiration to UNIX)? Almost everything about how we compute from hardware architecture to graphics to peripherals is different than even the early 1990s, but the humble command line has barely changed.

Some might consider this a sign of stagnation, but I see it as a confirmation that the command line -- and its design patterns, command line interfaces -- is just a very useful fundamental approach to user interface.

CLIs remain relevant in the 21st century and aren't going anywhere, so it's always a good time to pick up skills that apply to terminal environments. I wager that I can teach the fundamentals of CLI design in an afternoon and send you off to make useful software; I definitely can't do that with graphical user interface programming.

## The GitHub CLI

The GitHub CLI, or `gh`, is a version of github.com that can run in a terminal as a CLI. It permits you to interact with resources like repositories, pull requests, issues, actions, and more in a low-bandwidth, rapid, and extensible way.

It has over 120 commands as of this tutorial being written, from practical things like `gh pr list` to highly impractical things like `gh repo garden`.

## GitHub CLI extensions

The core CLI team at GitHub is just three engineers. As `gh` is open source, a lot of our bandwidth is occupied by community management and pull request integration. It's just not possible for us to be on top of every feature request let alone one-off features that help a niche audience.

Thus, we launched an extensions framework, allowing users to install custom commands written by people outside of the `gh` core team.

### Extensions from a user's perspective

On your computer, run:

```bash
gh ext install vilmibm/gh-oblique
```

`gh` should tell you that a new extension is installed.

Now, run:

```bash
gh ext list
```

You should see `vilmibm/gh-oblique` listed.

Now, run:

```bash
gh oblique
```

If you're doing this tutorial live with me, paste the output of the command in zoom chat! If you're doing this tutorial on your own, paste the output into your brain for later inspiration.

Finally, run:

```bash
gh ext remove vilmibm/gh-oblique
```

(`gh ext remove oblique` would have also worked but I like verbosity (can't you tell))

### Anatomy of an extension

All `gh` extensions must exist in a **git repository**. This can be local to your machine or hosted on GitHub. As long as you have read access to an extension's repository, you can install it--this means you can write an extension for a narrow audience's eyes only.

When installing from GitHub as opposed to your local machine, you'll need to **namespace** extensions by their owner.

For example, all of my extensions are namespaced by my Github username, `vilmibm`. Thus when referring to one of my extensions I'll type `vilmibm/gh-oblique` instead of just `gh-oblique`. This means that your extensions don't need unique names.

### Two great flavors

When creating an extension for `gh` you have a choice to make: will your extension be run **through an interpreter** or be delivered to users as a **precompiled binary**.

An example of an interpreted extension is [mislav/gh-branch](https://github.com/mislav/gh-branch/blob/main/gh-branch). An example of a precompiled extension (and a terrible idea) is [vilmibm/gh-chat](https://github.com/vilmibm/gh-chat).

I'm biased; I think the latter option, though it takes a little more up front effort, is almost always the right way to go. It makes life much easier for your users and gives you access to more sophisticated CLI tooling. However, sometimes you just want to ship a `bash` script to someone in a slightly more formal way than a `gist`.

If you want to make an interpreted extension, your extension's git repository must contain an executable file with the same name as your repository. For example, if I want to ship an extension in `bash`, I'd publish a repository named `vilmibm/gh-foobar` which would contain an executable file named `gh-foobar`. That's it! At the end of this guide there's a short lesson explaining this more in depth. 

Precompiled extensions leverage the **releases** feature on Github to ship precompiled binaries. `gh` will automatically select the correct binary to install when `gh ext install` is invoked.

[Next chapter: Designing Our Extension](02.md)
