# Calling the GitHub API

GitHub has two APIs: REST and GraphQL. Both are commonly used and the `go-gh` library can help you call both of them. In general, the REST API is much easier to understand and work with and is a good place to start with any project. The GraphQL API is more cumbersome and confusing, but can yield much better performance.

Since the REST API is more straightforward we'll start there.

## Calling the REST API for a list of issues

For `gh lol yell` we want a list of issues to yell about. The endpoint for this is `/repos/OWNER/REPO/issues`.

Add code to the bottom of `runYell`:

```go
func runYell(cmd *cobra.Command, repo repository.Repository) (err error) {
	// ... flag processing ...
 	client, err := api.DefaultRESTClient()
  if err != nil {
    return fmt.Errorf("couldn't create client: %w", err)
  }

  path := fmt.Sprintf("repos/%s/%s/issues?per_page=20", repo.Owner, repo.Name)

  response := []struct {
    Number int
    Title  string
  }{}

  err = client.Get(path, &response)
  if err != nil {
    return fmt.Errorf("failed to call API: %w", err)
  }

  for _, i := range response {
    fmt.Println(i.Number, i.Title)
  }

  return
}
```

_ !!! _ Your editor is probably adding to the import list at the top for you. If you are getting compilation errors, however, manually add `"github.com/cli/go-gh/v2/pkg/api` to the import list at the top of `main.go`.

Running this against a repository with stuff in it should return a list of things:

```bash
go build
gh lol yell -l 1 -R vilmibm/testing
```

You should see a lits of numbers and titles.

## GraphQL

Meanwhile in `roulette`, take a deep breath. Think about something nice and relaxing like kittens or sunsets. It's time to add some GraphQL.

We have two goals:

- get a list of either pull requests or issues
- pick a thing at random and close it

Astute learners will observe that this can be done with REST; they would be right. But for the sake of pedagogy let's see some GraphQL.

First, let's grab a library that will help us interact with GraphQL:

```bash
go get github.com/cli/shurcooL-graphql
```

Crack open `runRoulette` and add this code after the argument processing:

```go
```
