# Configuration

A powerful feature in `go-gh` is the ability to use the same config system as
`gh`. This means your extensions can feature user editable configuration
without you having to support parsing or editing config files.

Our new goal is to make our extension more supportive of its user. If they've set `supportive: enabled` in their `gh` config, we'll print out a nice message before running any of our subcommands.

## config.Read

We're going to read `gh`'s config into memory. Add some code to the top of `_main`:

```go
func _main() error {
  cfg, err := config.Read()
  if err != nil {
    return err
  }

  supportive, _ := cfg.Get([]string{"supportive"})
	// ...
}
```

Then, add this to the definition of `rootCmd.PersistentPreRunE`:

```go
rootCmd.PersistentPreRunE = func(cmd *cobra.Command, args []string) (err error) {
  if supportive == "enabled" {
    fmt.Println("hey. you're doing great. take a break if you need to.")
  }

	// ...
}
```

Right now, even if we recompile, `gh lol` will behave exactly the same. We haven't updated our `gh` config yet.

## Set a config value

Run this, ignoring the warning that is printed:

```bash
gh config set supportive enabled
```

then run your extension, being sure to recompile:

```bash
go build
gh lol spam -Rvilmibm/testing "whee"
```

You should see a nice message printed out. Obviously your real extensions shouldn't do this; however, hopefully it's clear that this is a great approach for supporting extension-specific configuration variables.

# Recap

At this point I've shown off a bunch of cool `go-gh` features; but it's not all of them. It also has helpers for:

- Shelling out to `gh` for behavior not exposed in `go-gh`'s API
- Opening a user's web browser programmatically
- JSON output
- Filtering JSON output with `jq`
- Markdown rendering
- SSH
- Text processing
- Retrieving auth info

I recommend touring its [example code](https://github.com/cli/go-gh/blob/trunk/example_gh_test.go) and its [package reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/cli/go-gh/v2)
