# Non-Go extensions: Rust example

This short chapter is primarily about how to ship precompiled but non-Go extensions. The actual code of our extension will not be sophisticated.

Though we don't have anything like `go-gh` for other languages, we have at least tried to ease the burden of releasing precompiled, non-Go extensions with our  [gh-extension-precompile](https://github.com/cli/gh-extension-precompile) action.

Though I'm using Rust in this chapter, the principles will allow to languages like C++, Haskell, or Chicken Scheme too.

## Prerequisites

You'll need the Rust compiler installed. Their [install page](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) can hook you up.

## Create your extension

Move to a directory where you're comfortable creating a new git repository, then run:

```bash
gh ext create
```

- for **extension name**, say **hello**
- for **What kind of extension**, choose **Other precompiled**

Then create the repository on GitHub:

```bash
gh repo create
```

- Choose **Push an existing local repository to GitHub**
- Choose the default (**.**) for repository path
- Choose the default (**gh-hello**) for repository name
- Choose the default (you) for repository owner
- Put whatever for description (empty string is fine)
- Select either **Public** or **Private** for visibility; if you're doing this live I recommend **Public** so I can help you more easily
- For the final three prompts, accept defaults

Now add a rust source file we can put some simple code in:

```bash
cd gh-hello
touch gh-hello.rs
```

Open up `gh-hello.rs` in your editor and fill it with:

```rust
fn main() {
  println!("hello there")
}
```

_can you tell I'm not a Rustacean?_

Compile and locally install the extension for testing:

```bash
rustc gh-hello.rs
gh install .
gh hello
```

`hello there` should be printed out.

## Setting up the release flow

Though `gh ext create` added a `release.yml` to `.github/workflows/release.yml`, it won't actually help ship this extension until `script/build.sh` is filled in.

`script/build.sh` is called from the action to prepare your release assets. If you run `cat script/build.sh`, it'll give you a hint as to how to proceed: `It should build binaries in dist/<platform>-<arch>[.exe] as needed.`

Let's do that. Open up `script/build.sh` and make it look like:

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
set -e

brew install FiloSottile/musl-cross/musl-cross
sudo ln -s /usr/local/opt/musl-cross/bin/x86_64-linux-musl-gcc /usr/local/bin/musl-gcc

mkdir -p dist

rustc gh-hello.rs -o dist/darwin-amd64
rustc gh-hello.rs -C "linker=musl-gcc" --target x86_64-unknown-linux-musl -o dist/linux-amd64
```

**!!!** A potential point of frustration and confusion here is architecture names. Rust and Go use different names for architectures (eg `x86_64` vs `amd64`). When `gh` installs a precompiled extension it looks for binaries based on the **Go** naming scheme. You can check out [a gist of GOARCH terms](https://gist.github.com/vilmibm/4679196d67bfb2a4b29fbd4ff20430d3).

To finalize this flow we need to make two changes to `.github/workflows/release.yml`:

- Switch to running on MacOS
- Use an action to get `rustc` installed as well as a linux compilation target

Open `.github.workflows/release.yml` and make it look like:

```yaml
name: release
on:
  push:
    tags:
      - "v*"
permissions:
  contents: write

jobs:
  release:
    # Switch to Mac
    runs-on: macos-latest
    steps:
      # Add rust action
      - uses: actions-rs/toolchain@v1.0.6
        with:
          toolchain: stable
          target: target: x86_64-unknown-linux-musl
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      - uses: cli/gh-extension-precompile@v1
        with:
          build_script_override: "script/build.sh"
```

Combining all of this, we are ready to ship our smol rust extension:

```bash
git add gh-hello.rs
git add .github/workflows/release.yml
git add script/build.sh
git commit -m'add code, setup precompile action'
git push
git tag v1.0.0
git push origin v1.0.0
gh run watch
```

While the run goes, uninstall the development version of the extension:

```bash
gh ext remove hello
```

and once the run has completed, see that our extension is installable and runnable:

```bash
gh ext install $YOUR_GITHUB_NAME/gh-hello
gh hello
```

_don't forget to replace $YOUR\_GITHUB\_USERNAME with your GitHub username._

## Cross compilation

We left out windows, but hopefully the pattern here is clear: as long as `script/build.sh` puts properly named binaries into `dist/`, the `gh-extension-precompile` action will happily make precompiled extension releases for you.
